# RegionalAnalysis
Regional analysis work for the Ukraine REU 2019 group.

## Abstract
In Ukraine, regional differences have been analyzed as powerful predictors of voting patterns, and mass attitudes (Barrington, 1997). Region has also been examined as a component informing differences in religion, language, and suicide ideation in Ukraine. Bromet et al. (2005) found that living in Eastern Ukraine was a risk factor for mental disorders, and one in three Ukrainians experience a DSM-IV disorder over their lifetime, ranking among the highest compared to other countries analyzed utilizing the same survey instrument. Strong regional differences and a high incidence of disorder motivate the need to study regional differences in mental health prevalence. Other researchers have attempted to aggregate Ukraine’s oblasts into differing regional frameworks based on numerous factors (Barrington & Herron, 2004; Holdar, 1995; Kubicek, 2000), though these frameworks have largely focused on political attitudes rather than mental health. 

     Our research aims to answer three questions: which oblasts have higher prevalence rates of DSM-IV disorders, and how can we aggregate oblasts into regions to help explain the variation in disorder prevalence? What factors informing regional differences best explain mental disorder prevalence, even when controlling for demographics known to be associated with mental illness? To study these questions, we utilize nationally representative data from the 2002 World Mental Health Survey, the State Statistics Service of Ukraine, and the Kiev International Institute of Sociology to define homogenous regional groups and better understand the relationship between historical, political, cultural and environmental factors and mental health. Our analysis will include model comparison of various definitions of region to determine which model explains intra- and inter-oblast variation in mental disorder prevalence most accurately. This study importantly introduces geographic epidemiology of mental health in a former Soviet Union country, which allows for more targeted intervention approaches in a country with a high prevalence of disorders.

### This is a work in progress maintained by @hollybossart, @dericliang, and @abarlysky. Questions can be directed to hollybossart@u.boisestate.edu.
